The aim of today's class is
to be able to analyze a company'
s solvency and liquidity
from its financial statements.
We will primarily use the
balance sheet.
Therefore, the first thing we
have to do is understand well what the
definition of the term solvency and
the term liquidity consists of
and, in addition, know the differences
between them.
On the one hand, solvency
measures the ability of
an enterprise to face long-
term debt repayment.
What we will do in solvency
is to analyze the assets and analyze
the financial structure,
liabilities, net worth,
etc.
As you can see, we are talking about
long-term.
Liquidity, on the other hand,
measures the ability of
a company to generate treasury
to face the return of short-
term debts.
Therefore, the two main differences
are, in the case of solvency we
talk of asset, we will consider
the entire asset, or the assets
of the company, the investments,
and in the case of liquidity we
do not talk of the asset itself,
what we are talking is of the
ability of those assets to
generate treasury.
In the case of solvency we
speak of long-term and in liquidity
we speak of short-term.
Basically that is the difference.
I will give you an example
of a family.
We will think of a family whose
asset is basically a home
and the liability, 80% is indebted
because they asked for a mortgage
loan and 20% are own funds.
If we analyze solvency, what we
have to compare is the asset with
the liability, etc.
We will think, for example, that
in the 2008 crisis what happened
to this family is that, as the
value of real estate goods
decreased very much, because it
came a time when its asset is less
than its liability, that is,
the asset, the value of the
home is less than what remains
to pay.
It is in a bankrupt situation.
This is a solvency analysis,
but if we analyze liquidity what
we will have to analyze is whether
that family is able to generate
treasury month by month to
face the quota, the quota
that it has to pay every
month.
As you can see, they are different perspectives.
Now what we will do is look
at a series of ratios, which
are the ratios that are usually
used to analyze solvency
and to analyze liquidity.
I know there are thousands of ratios.
Really, if we investigate, if
we analyze what different
business schools, etc. share,
on each site at the same ratios,
in some cases they are called
differently, well, it
is really a mess.
But what I want is that you
understand more or less how
these ratios work and what are
the main ratios, the most common
ones.
Let us start by measuring the solvency.
What we do is, from the situation
balance sheet, we will analyze
the structure of assets,
how we have funded
ourselves, etc.
Let us compare the different
masses and start with the most well-
known of all, which is the indebtedness
ratio.
It is very simple, it is very intuitive.
In this case, what we will measure is
how much the debt weighs.
In this case, we will consider
only the debt with cost or only
the financial debt.
That is, we will take away the effect
of the spontaneous financing that
would be the providers.
Let's see how much the debt weighs
on the total of the sources of financing,
which would be the liability plus
the asset elected.
It is a percentage.
The higher this percentage, the
more indebted we are.
And what is the implication of this?
More debt, more risk
What happens is that, as we saw
in the classroom when
we analyzed the ROE,
financial profitability, when you
borrow usually this what it does
is boost the profitability of
your own funds.
Why is?
Because our partners had to make
a smaller investment.
To draw conclusions about the
debt ratio is very difficult.
That is, we can say that an indebtedness,
for example, of 50 percent is prudent,
but really what needs to be
done is to analyze it by
sectors.
That is, there are sectors
where a 50% debt can be low and
in others it can be high, etc.
So this ratio and many of which
we're going to really see what
we have to do is, what we
have to do is compare
them with competing companies.
You can draw some conclusions.
If a company is much more indebted
than its competitors within
the same sector, well, because
it may be taking an excessive
risk.
By the way, what we can do here
to calculate debt
is also to consider what percentage
of those debts are in
the long term.
And so we can have a little more information
not only of how much you are
indebted, but also the quality
of that debt.
The higher the amount of
long-term debt, the better.
We could do this through two ratios.
Instead of calculating the ratio
of total debt, we can also
calculate the ratio of short-
term debt and only take
short-term debt into account.
We divide it by the net
asset plus the total of
the assets.
We do the same in the short and
long term.
And as he said, the higher the
proportion of long-term
debt, the better.
Another ratio for solvency
analysis is what is known
as solvency ratio.
And in this case we return to the situation
balance sheet and what we will
compare is the total asset from another
perspective.
The total asset is divided between the total
of the Y, in this case it is the reverse.
The higher the solvency ratio,
the greater the solvency.
We first settle the debt.
Now we measure it from another perspective.
And I say that I cannot draw
any conclusions.
We must always contextualize the data
we provide.
Now we will look at the liquidity of
the company.
We also refer to the concept of liquidity.
It is the ability to generate
treasury to deal with
short-term debt repayments.
It is a treasure concept.
We will do this primarily with
three ratios.
Let us go back to the balance sheet.
Remember the background of the maneuver.
The fund of maneuver is the
difference between the current
asset, i.e., the asset that will generate
treasury in a period of less than
one year, and the current liability,
which are debts with a period
of expiry less than one year.
Well, in this case we will do it is to
analyze the background of manoeuvre
by means of a ratio that we call
the ratio of the background of manoeuvre.
The current asset is divided
between the current passive.
The higher the ratio of the fund
of manoeuvre, the greater the liquidity
of the company.
Basically, if the ratio is higher
than one, the current asset
is higher than the current liability
and in theory we will have
enough liquidity to pay off
the debts.
If the ratio is less than
one, this means that the
current liability is
higher than the current
asset.
In theory, we will have
trouble with repaying the debt.
However, the interpretation we have
to do and what we have to know is
that it is not always so, that
is, there are companies that can
afford to have a negative manoeuvre
fund.
And we will go back to the class
where we analyzed the operational
needs of funds and analyzed
the working capital cycle or
the cycle of the fund of manoeuvre.
And remember that there were companies,
for example, the one we have
on screen, which is a supermarket,
in which the company's operations
were actually funding
the activity.
Remember in this case that
we bought goods, the rotation
is very high, the 30 days
the goods were sold, we
charged in cash but
we were paying suppliers
within 90 days.
So, the company's operations
were funding us
for 60 days.
It is a case where the background of
manoeuvre is negative, the NOVs are negative.
In this case, if we go to the balance
sheet, the balance of suppliers is
greater than the balance of stocks
and customers.
Therefore, as we are seeing, the background
of manoeuvre in this case is negative
and the ratio of the background of
manoeuvre is less than one.
In addition, there are two other ratios
that help us measure liquidity and
what we do is to be increasingly conservative,
that is, in the ratio of the
fund of manoeuvre we have taken
into account all the current
asset and compared it with the
current liability.
Now we are going to
be more conservative,
more liquid.
The acid test is known
as acid test, usually
acid test in English.
In this case, what we do is instead
of considering all the current
asset, what we do is take
away the stocks.
We will not depend on stocks,
we do not know what will happen,
we do not know what will be
their rotation, etc.
We will be more cautious.
So what we do is current asset
less stocks divided
into current passive.
Or we will be even more
cautious, even more demanding,
and what we will do is to directly
compare the treasury we have
today in cash with short-
term debt.
As you can imagine, this ratio
is going down as we take
away the games.
Each time we stay with the most
liquid items and in this case we
will compare that, treasury
with current liabilities.
I will make a summary.
We must be able to analyze
solvency and liquidity.
Solvency is a longer term concept
and liquidity is a short
term.
We use a number of
ratios.
There is a ratio, for example, well
known, which is the ratio of
indebtedness, which we will measure
is the percentage of the total of
the sources of financing, the percentage
that is debt.
The more indebted we are, the more
risk there is, but on the other
hand, from the perspective
of profitability, borrowing
boosts profitability.
We will also measure solvency from
another perspective, which is
to compare assets with the total
liabilities.
So, the higher this ratio the
more solvent we will be.
And to analyze liquidity, which
is a concept related to treasury,
what we will use is, for example,
three ratios.
The most well-known is the ratio
of the fund of manoeuvre, in which
we will divide the current asset
between the current liability, but
we can be increasingly restrictive
and we can, for example,
use the ratio of the acid test,
which is that in this case,
instead of taking the entire
current liability, we will
rest the stocks.
Or we can be even more demanding
and consider only the most liquid
part, which is the treasury
we have today in the box.
We will divide it between the
current passive.
All these ratios, all these
ratios indicate the number
of times, because we are dividing
the number of times, that our
assets are able to cover
current liabilities.